The second thing I want to leave you with is that you’ve got to keep listening. The world wants to hear your ideas — good and bad. But today’s not the day you switch from “receive” to “transmit.” Once you do that, your education is over. And your education should never be over. Even outside of your work, there are ways to keep challenging yourself. Listen to online lectures. I just retook a philosophy course that I took at Harvard when I was nineteen. You go to MIT OpenCourseWare. Go to Waitbutwhy.com, go to TED.com.

I’m told there’s even a Trump University. I have no earthly idea what they teach there. But whatever you do, just keep listening. Even to people you don’t agree with at all. I love what President Obama said at Howard University’s commencement last month: he said, “Democracy requires compromise, even when you are 100% right.”

I heard that and thought: here is a man who has been happily married for a long time. Not that the First Lady has ever been wrong about anything. Just like my wife. Never wrong. Not even when she decided last month that in a family with four kids, what was missing in our lives was a third rescue dog. That was an outstanding decision, honey. And I love you.

The third and last thought I want to leave you with is that not every problem has a high-tech solution. Now if anybody has a right to think we can pretty much tech support the world’s problems into submission, it’s you. Think of the innovations that got their start at MIT or by MIT alums: the World Wide Web; Nuclear fission; Condensed soup. That’s is true, you should be proud of that.

But the truth is, we can’t science the you know what out of every problem. There is not always an app for that. I mean take water again as an example. People are always looking at some scientific quick fix for the problem of dirty and disease-ridden water. A “pill you put in the glass,” a filter, et cetera. But there’s no magic bullet. The problem’s just too complex.

Yes, there is definitely, absolutely a role for science. There’s incredible advances being made in clean water technology. Companies and universities are getting in on the game. And I’m glad to know that professors like Susan Mercott at D-Lab are focusing on water and sanitation. But as I’m sure she’d agree, science alone can’t solve this problem. We need to be just as innovative in public policy, just as innovative in our financial models. And that’s the idea behind an approach we have at Water.org called WaterCredit.
