Well, Professor Tegmark has an excellent take on all of this. My advice, he said recently, is to go out and do really interesting things, so the simulators don’t shut you down. Now then again what if it isn’t a simulation. Either way, my answer is the same. Either way what we do matters, what we do affects the outcome.

So either way, MIT, you’ve got to go out and do really interesting things, important things, inventive things, because this world, real or imagined, this world has some problems that we need you to drop everything and solve. So go ahead and take your pick from the world’s worst buffet. Economic inequality, that’s a problem. How about the refugee crisis? Massive global insecurity, climate change, pandemics, institutional racism, a pull to nativism, fear-driven brains working overtime, here in America and in places like Austria, where a far-right candidate nearly won the presidential election for the first time since World War II.

Or the Brexit, for God’s sakes, that insane idea that the best path for Britain is to cut loose from Europe and drift out to sea. I mean, what is Europe even going to look like in 25 years? And add to that an American political system that’s failing. We’ve got congressmen on a two-year election cycle who are only incentivized to think short term, and simply do not engage with long-term problems.

And add to that a media that thrives on scandal and people with their pants down , anything to get you to tune in so they can hawk you products that you don’t need. And add to that a banking system that steals people’s money. It’s all right. I’m not running for office.

By the way while I’m on this, let me just say this to the bankers, specifically the ones who brought you the biggest heist in history: It was theft and you knew it. It was fraud and you knew it. And you know what else? We know that you knew it. So yeah, you sort of got away with it. You got that house in the Hamptons that other people paid for, as their own mortgages went underwater. And you might have their money, but you don’t have our respect. And just so you know, when we pass you on the street and look you in the eye, that’s what we’re thinking.

And I don’t know if justice is coming for you in this life or the next. But if justice does come for you in this life, her name will be Elizabeth Warren.
