All right. So before my little banking digression, I rattled off a bunch of big problems. And a natural response is to tune out and turn away.

But before you step out into our big, troubled world, I want to pass along a piece of advice that Bill Clinton offered me a little over a decade ago. Actually, when he said it, it felt less like advice and more like a direct order. What he said was “turn toward the problems you see”. You have to engage and turn towards the problems that you see. Except it sounded like turn towards the problems that you see.

But when he said this to me, he literally turned his body for emphasis towards me. No, listen, it seemed kind of simple at the time, but the older I get, the more wisdom I see in this. And that is what I want to urge you to do today: turn towards the problems that you see and engage with them. Walk right up to them, look them in the eye and then look yourself in the eye and decide what you’re going to do about them.

Now in my experience, there’s just no substitute for actually going and seeing these things. I owe this insight, like many others, to my Mom. When I was a teenager, Mom thought it was important for us to see the world outside of Boston. And I don’t just mean Framingham. She took us to places like Guatemala, where we saw extreme poverty up close. And it changed my whole frame of reference.

I think it was that same impulse that took my brother and me to Zambia in 2006, as part of the ONE Campaign — the organization that Bono founded to fight desperate, what he calls stupid poverty and preventable disease in the developing world. And on that trip, in a small community, I met this girl and I walked with her to a nearby bore-well where she could get clean water.

She had just come from school. And I knew the reason that she was able to go to school at all is clean water. Namely, the fact that it was available nearby, so she didn’t have to walk miles back and forth all day to get water for her family, like so many girls and women do around the world.
